>> Kyle Simpson: Here's another reason
why I'm kind of concerned about
the proliferation of const
within our language.
There is a lot of baggage that
comes with the const keyword.
Certainly this is not a new invention for
the JavaScript language.
Const was added to languages decades ago.
And if you look even on a site like
Stack Overflow and do a search for
questions about a const keyword,
you can find thousands and
thousands of questions and problems
that people have had with this keyword,
in basically every language
that it's ever been added to.
And I think one of the root reasons,
if I'm trying to approach that
question as an educator, as somebody
that tries to understand what problems
people who are learning things have.
And what they need to do
to get over those problems.
When I look at it from that lens, I think
the real problem comes down to the English
language being difficult to parse
alongside of programming language.
When we say the word constant, a lot of
us mean, something that doesn't change.
When we say that in sort of everyday
language, if we said the temperature has
been constant today, it hasn't
changed today, that's what we mean.
So we're implying something that doesn't
change, and that's to this gray area,
what thing is it that's not
changing with a constant?
So if I point const at a value,
if I point a const declaration at a value,
that itself cannot change like 6.5,
that's sort of a moot point.
[LAUGH] The value can't change anyway,
so it doesn't matter.
But if I point it at a thing that can
change, for example, an array, now all of
a sudden, we see that there is a nuance
difference that is really important.
It's nuanced, but actually,
it should be the whole thing.
Because the question is whether or not
we care about reassigning a variable, or
whether we care about a value that
could be mutated, having been changed.
For example, adding or
removing an element from an array, or
reassigning one of
the properties of an object.
Those are mutations to a value that
are possible with certain value types,
like arrays and objects, which basically
aren't possible with a number or a string.
So when we use a const
with something primitive,
that isn't already changeable,
it's not such a big deal.
The nuance doesn't present itself.
But when you start, for example,
assigning functions to const,
like we're doing here on line 3,
functions are actually objects.
And they can have properties on them.
That isn't typically done that much, but
you can use a function as an object.
And of course,
that means the value can be mutated.
And even worse, when you use const
with real objects or with real arrays,
you create this confusion,
I think, in people,
where they think in their mind initially,
that is a value that isn't gonna change.
When actually,
what the const keyword is saying is it's
an assignment that isn't gonna change.
So if I create an array and then assign
it with a const declaration, and
then later that value changes,
the most likely outcome is that
the reader is gonna be confused.
Certainly you can learn to get
along with the const keyword.
Certainly you can learn that keyword, you
can learn its mechanics, you can use it so
often that that becomes not a problem for
you.
But the default reaction for programmers
seems to be to get it confused,
which is why there's so
many questions on Stack Overflow about it.
People saying, well I declared it
with a const and then it changed, or
it wasn't declared with a const,
and it didn't change.
I mean,
it just creates perpetual confusion.
So much so that some programming
language communities had so
much trouble with it
that the language itself,
namely I'm talking about Java here, they
basically deprecated the const keyword and
introduced a new keyword
in its place called final.
Because const had this English
language baggage attached to it,
that said it's a constant,
it's a thing that's not gonna change.
And now we're saying final sort of
implies it's the final assignment of this
variable.
I guess that's helped the Java community,
I'm certainly not a Java programmer.
But they had to make that change
because people were confused by it.
And I've set up this entire
course in the context of
we want to communicate
better with our code.
Why would we use a feature which has long
historical precedent for confusing people?
So that's where the real
trouble that I have comes from.
It starts out already in the negative,
if you will.
And with any programming language feature,
with any framework feature,
the question that needs to be asked is,
does that thing carry its own weight?
Does it have enough benefit to overcome
any potential downsides that it
may present?
Most of the time,
I think we'd say that would be true.
But with the const keyword, my claim is,
it doesn't really carry its own weight.
If it's gonna trip people up, especially
the new readers of a piece of code,
or people that aren't yet
familiar with the thing,
if it's going to have that strong
potential to trip people up,
that strong decades-long precedent for
tripping people up.
Then it ought to provide a really
substantial benefit to our program to
justify its inclusion.
And the claims of its benefit are I think,
at best, weak.
So for example, in this slide,
we see a const declaration on line 2,
another const declaration on line 3.
And then of course line 8,
since it's named that way,
it sort of implies it's
doing a side effect.
It's writing to a database or
changing a record in the DOM, or
who knows what it's doing.
But the point that I'm making is that
this is a relatively short block of code.
It's only seven lines of code
inside of the curly brace blocks.
We're told many times that we
should keep our blocks short,
that we shouldn't be writing hundreds or
thousands of line-long blocks,
because it's hard for
the reader to understand things.
My own personal kind of style guide,
if you will, or
what I try to keep is I
try to keep no block,
no function larger than what I can
see on the screen at any given time.
And at my general zoom level,
that's about 20, maybe 25 lines at most.
So if it's longer than that,
I'm immediately thinking to myself,
I should be refactoring this thing.
I should be trying to break it
down into 10, 15, 20 line at most.
I shouldn't be having
100-line long blocks.
And I'll be honest with you, you can see
a lot of my code, if you go on my Github,
that breaks that rule.
So I'm not always perfect, in fact,
I'm often not perfect at that.
But it's a general guide for myself
that I don't want to have these long,
long blocks that are hard to read.
So if you're following that sort of thing,
if you're following what the general best
practice is to have a short block,
we need to understand that the idea of
assignment is inherently related
to the idea of lexical scope.
The idea of assigning to a variable
is inextricably linked to the idea
that that variable belongs
to a particular scope.
When we do const shippingCost on line 2,
we have created a variable that exists
only for the next six lines of code.
It does not exist anywhere
else in the program.
And that means that nowhere else in
the program could possibly reassign it.
We have a short block of code, and
we have only a few lines of code that
could possibly do the reassignment.
So the typical argument is,
well const signals intent.
It tells the developer that's reading
your code, you don't have to worry,
it won't get reassigned later in the code.
But if we're following best practice,
that's not very many lines of code that
it's asserting anything about anyway.
It's not as if we have tens of thousands
of lines of code that we couldn't possibly
as a human juggle,
right here we have six other lines.
And there's another way to say
to the reader of your code,
I'm not gonna reassign a thing, and
it's to simply just not reassign it.
As matter of fact,
if you're doing functional programming,
don't assign at all.
As little as possible, do assignments.
So I'm not sure that the const keyword is
actually providing all that much benefit,
even in this best case scenario,
where you're saying to the developer,
hey listen.
I'm not gonna reassign it, because most
of the lines that could be reassigned
are already clearly visible to you.
And you can see that it's
not being reassigned.
In these particular cases,
since we're inside of a block,
my preference is to use the let keyword.
And I use the var keyword at the function
level scope rather than the let,
because it says to readers,
and has for 23 years,
this variable belongs
to the entire function.
>> Kyle Simpson: So maybe assignment
immutability isn't such a big deal.
Maybe it isn't the problem that we really
ought to be concerning ourselves with.
But there is a much bigger deal that
I think we should be concerning
ourselves with.
That's the question of value immutability.
Because unlike assignments, which
are lexically scoped by their literal
definition, they are lexically scoped to
generally a small portion of our program.
Values, especially values that are passed
by reference, are completely portable.
They can go anywhere in the program,
and even beyond the program to other
third-party code that is included and
running.
So if you take an array that
has some numbers in it and
you pass it somewhere else, you have
to be asking yourself the question,
what is going to happen to that value?